hi I'm Dan Leonard and we're going to
talk about blues elements in jazz
playing first I'm going to demonstrate
the minor pentatonic and the major
pentatonic scales and and then go from
there so staying in the key of G the
minor pentatonic scale this is a G
dominant 7th chord which is a type of
cord often used in blues the minor
pentatonic scale which is used a lot in
obviously blues it's also used a lot in
rock sounds like this the major
pentatonic scale based off of this major
chord form sounds like this which once
again is used quite a bit in blues and
rock and even in some country music
these are both often blended together
with what are called blues notes to
create a blues sound and jazz I'll
demonstrate where the blues notes would
fall in the minor pentatonic you get a
blues note there it's flatted 5th note
and in the major pentatonic you can add
a a minor third to that scale to give it
a bluesier sound and often these scales
are blended together to come up with
bluesy jazzy type phrases so what I
would recommend is to work out these
scales around each of those chord forms
with out first without the blues notes
and then with the blues notes and then
experiment with combining them obviously
learning licks by players that you hear
that sound have a blues sound two more
Blue's inflection to them often use
these scales and familiarity with them
really help to save you a lot of time in
terms of getting that sound together to
watch the other segments in this video
series or for how-to videos on almost
any other topic visit monkey-see calm